Simple Docling Extracted Data from: tallman-et-al-2020-nickel-rich-nickel-manganese-cobalt-(nmc622)-cathode-lithiation-mechanism-and-extended-cycling.pdf
============================================================

Title: tallman-et-al-2020-nickel-rich-nickel-manganese-cobalt-(nmc622)-cathode-lithiation-mechanism-and-extended-cycling
Pages: 16
Tables: 0
Figures: 0

MAIN TEXT:
------------------------------
<!-- image -->

pubs.acs.org/JPCC

## Nickel-rich Nickel Manganese Cobalt (NMC622) Cathode Lithiation Mechanism and Extended Cycling E /uniFB00 ects Using Operando X -ray Absorption Spectroscopy

Killian R. Tallman, Garrett P. Wheeler, Christopher J. Kern, Eli Stavitski, Xiao Tong, Kenneth J. Takeuchi, Amy C. Marschilok, David C. Bock, * and Esther S. Takeuchi *

<!-- image -->

Cite This: J. Phys. Chem. C 2021, 125, 58 -73

## ACCESS

Metrics &amp; More

<!-- image -->

Article Recommendations

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

ABSTRACT: Ni-rich NMC materials are a particularly promising class of Li-ion cathodes for various applications. LiNi0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 (NMC622) o /uniFB00 ers a unique balance of thermal stability and energy density, thus attracting attention for electric vehicle implementation. However, upon extended cycling, capacity fade is prevalent due to structural degradation, which is a major drawback for layered oxide cathodes. Therefore, exploring the underlying phenomena that drive detrimental structural response can lead to future improvements. For the /uniFB01 rst time, operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was performed on NMC622 pouch

*

<!-- image -->

Supporting Information

<!-- image -->

cells at three di /uniFB00 erent stages. An extensive description of the /uniFB01 rst cycle (de)lithiation mechanisms was achieved through X-ray absorption near-edge structure analyses and extended X-ray absorption /uniFB01 ne structure modeling. Transition metal speci /uniFB01 c electrochemical participation and structural variation revealed that much of the delivered capacity and distortion is a result of Ni redox behavior, while the local structure of Co and Mn are impacted due to their interdependencies. Key mechanistic components were identi /uniFB01 ed, as the local structural variation from redox processes and Ni 3+ Jahn -Teller distortion were decoupled. Further, operando XAS was used to investigate the structural response of NMC622 to extended cycling and was supported by X-ray di /uniFB00 raction, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analyses. Reduced capacity was found in the cell after 100 cycles and is attributed to structural degradation and cathode -electrolyte interphase buildup from repeated Li (de)insertion processes, which limit the electrochemical reversibility of Ni and Co through increased polarization. These results expand the understanding of a Ni-rich NMC material under extended cycling, which is vital to the future design of electrode materials.

## ■ INTRODUCTION

Recent widespread use of electric vehicles (EVs) and subsequent demand for electric storage have driven the development of highly reversible and energy dense materials, such as LiNi x Mn y Co z O2 (NMC). 1 Much commercial use has involved NMC333; however, the practical capacity is limited by the quantity of Mn. 2 Since Ni is the main contributor to the capacity, e /uniFB00 orts to increase its content have been extensively pursued. Additionally, limiting Co content has been a focus to reduce the cost of NMC materials, facilitating EV market adoption. 3 LiNi1 -x -y Mn x Co y O2 ( x + y ≤ 0.4, Ni-rich NMC) is attractive, particularly for EV applications, due to their high deliverable capacity (&gt;200 mA h/g) and energy density ( ∼ 800 Wh/kg), which are the essential requirements for future EVs. 4 Alongside the high capacity contribution of Ni to NMC materials, Co is known to contribute to rate capability by limiting Ni/Li ion mixing while Mn is responsible for structural and thermal stability. 5 -7 Thus, LiNi0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 (NMC622) is a good balance of high capacity, high energy density, good structural stability, and low cost with notable

<!-- image -->

cyclability for utilization in the EV sector. 2,3 More recently, LiNi x Co y Al z O2 (NCA) materials have been commercialized as they have lower costs with competitive cyclability. However, they have been found to lack su /uniFB03 cient thermal stability relative to NMC-type materials due to the absence of Mn. 6 Additionally, Li di /uniFB00 usion coe /uniFB03 cients, determined experimentally and theoretically, of NMC materials with an increased Nicontent are accompanied by an increased ability to facilitate Liion di /uniFB00 usion. 8 This demonstrates that with safety considerations, the NMC class of cathode materials is worth pursuing in the direction of Ni-rich NMC.

Received:

September 4, 2020

Revised:

November 18, 2020

Published:

December 11, 2020

<!-- image -->

Capacity fade found in layered metal oxide cathode materials is often linked to irreversible phase changes that occur as a result of repeated Li insertion processes. Abuse conditions, such as overcharging, increased operating temperature, and expanded voltage window, accentuate capacity fade. 9 Maintaining structural integrity throughout cycling is a key determinant of its cyclability, thus making it the focus of many studies. In general, structural breakdown is typically characterized by irreversible phase changes, but the factors that contribute to the degradation are much more complicated. In terms of the hexagonal (H) host structure, NMC can reversibly transition between and coexist with the H1 and H2 phases, which di /uniFB00 er in lattice parameters. 10 The next hexagonal phase, H3, exhibits a severely contracted c -axis in the absence of Li cations that can lead to instability, layer collapse, limited Li-ion access, and inevitably capacity fade. At the atomic scale and most abundant on the surface, further undesirable structural changes follow a transition from the layered metal oxide phase ( R 3 ̅ m ) to a disordered spinel ( Fd 3 ̅ m ) and eventually a rock salt phase ( Fm 3 ̅ m ). 9 Electrolyte interactions with highly oxidized Ni facilitate greater reactivity of oxygen, leading to surface reconstruction, transition metal (TM) cation mobility, and increased /uniFB02 ammability hazard via evolved oxygen reacting with organic electrolyte species. 11 Due to similar radii, Ni 2+ can migrate into the Li sites, which characterizes an irreversible phase transition and blocks Li di /uniFB00 usion within the plane. Additionally, the Jahn -Teller (JT) active Ni 3+ (d 7 ) can cause signi /uniFB01 cant anisotropic lattice changes. These and other instances of non-uniform lattice volume changes manifest as fracturing and fragmentation of intra- and intergranular regions in the cathode particles and grain boundaries. Typically, these e /uniFB00 ects occur either concurrently or as a result of another e /uniFB00 ect, as they are highly concomitant and lead to structural destabilization and capacity fade.

Raising Ni content to achieve enhanced delivered capacity is not without challenges as it impacts cycle life and thermal stability. 12 Diminished thermal stability is correlated with increasing Ni content and decreasing Mn content, so compositional trade-o /uniFB00 s must be made. 13 Moreover, facilitated by an elevated Ni content, oxygen release and subsequent structural breakdown occur at higher temperatures, which cause safety concerns. 11 Thermal stability is highly dependent on the thermodynamically unstable Ni 4+ ions, which exist at a greater extent with increasing Ni content and readily reduce to Ni 2+ with simultaneous loss of oxygen at elevated temperatures. 14 This has been shown to a /uniFB00 ect Ni-rich compounds but to a substantially higher degree for NMC811 relative to NMC622. 15 -17 Some e /uniFB00 orts in raising the thermal stability and reversibility of NMC622 at high voltage have been successful by using an electrolyte additive blend that works together with an Al2O3 surface coating. 18,19 Speci /uniFB01 cally, the Al2O3 surface coating is e /uniFB00 ective in limiting the impedance growth at elevated temperatures by either stabilizing the active NMC material or inhibiting the reaction between the surface of NMC particles and oxidized electrolyte species. Further, advancements in depolarizing NMC622 have been demonstrated through a pre-lithiation procedure. 20 Understandably, an increased Ni content will result in a greater JT distorted Ni 3+ population, which leads to further restriction of electrical and ionic transport through anisotropic volume changes. Irreversible phase transitions not only limit reversibility but also increase interfacial resistance. Furthermore, implications for the internal cell resistance buildup include shifting of redox peaks throughout cycling, indicating increased polarization, which has been shown with NMC811. 13 Thus, there is a practical limit to the amount of Ni because of its detrimental e /uniFB00 ects. Capacity retention of NMC811 has been shown to be inferior to NMC622 with regard to cycling at 4.2 V or higher. 21 Poor capacity retention when using higher cuto /uniFB00 voltages with signi /uniFB01 cant amounts of Li removal coincides with the H2 to H3 phase change, which has been shown to occur earlier and cause increased impedance for NMC materials with 80% Ni or more. 1,22 In this light, NMC622 is most attractive as it has a noteworthy compromise of decent thermal stability and high energy density. However, e /uniFB00 orts in mitigating the apparent drawbacks of Ni-rich NMC materials begin with understanding (de)lithiation behavior and the underlying phenomena that dictate its behavior.

Previous reports using advanced characterization to examine NMC622 include X-ray di /uniFB00 raction (XRD) 6,10,16,23 -25 and transmission electron microscopy techniques. 15,24,26 In regard to X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), little attention has been paid to NMC622 while NMC333 and other combinations have been studied. Although XRD is a more common technique in general, it is limited in some respects. XAS o /uniFB00 ers element speci /uniFB01 c local structure quanti /uniFB01 cation of atomic distance and disorder, which cannot be elucidated with XRD. XAS investigations of NMC622 are limited to only a few reports containing ex situ measurements. 27 -30 In addition, the literature lacks reports utilizing operando XAS to probe NMC622 and most other compositions. The advantage of operando measurements, instead of ex situ , includes studying a battery during operation allowing the ability to capture phenomena that may only be kinetically accessible. To the best of our knowledge only one study has reported on operando XAS of Ni-rich NMC. 31 This report collected operando XAS on NMC811 during the /uniFB01 rst charge but o /uniFB00 ered limited discussion on the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra and extended X-ray absorption /uniFB01 ne structure (EXAFS) data were not included. One report investigated the /uniFB01 rst charge of LiNi0.5Mn0.25Co0.25O2 with limited operando XAS measurements, 32 while another report presented labbased operando XANES of LiNi0.5Mn0.3Co0.2O2. 33 However, in both cases, the Ni-content is below the most commonly accepted de /uniFB01 nition of Ni-rich NMC materials (LiNi1 -x -y Mn x Co y O2, x + y ≤ 0.4). 4,9 Thus, we report the /uniFB01 rst operando XAS investigation of NMC622 as well as the /uniFB01 rst indepth description of any Ni-rich NMC (de)lithiation mechanism. Additionally, this report provides the /uniFB01 rst Nirich NMC operando XAS analysis on pouch cells after extended cycling in which the lithiation behavior was elucidated. Despite the NMC materials being so widely used for their limited structural distortion over cycling, the in-depth operando XAS analyses showcase observable activity at each TM center as well as the local distortions they experience. Moreover, insight into the distant coordination environment, third and fourth coordination shells, is also acquired.

Herein, we report electrochemical activity and structural variation of Ni, Co, and Mn in NMC622 revealed by XANES analyses and EXAFS structural modeling, respectively, and supported by XRD, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analyses. Although di /uniFB03 cult to decouple, we report how redox-dependent local structural variations in NMC622 are caused by both the modulation of e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge as well as the JT distortion of Ni 3+ metal centers.

## ■ EXPERIMENTAL SECTION

Electrode Preparation. LiNi0.6Co0.2Mn0.2O2 (NMC622) was purchased from Targray with a particle size of 9 -18 μ m. Electrodes were prepared with a 90:5:5 mass ratio of NMC, Super P carbon, and polyvinylidene /uniFB02 uoride binder. The composite slurry was cast onto carbon-coated aluminum foil using N -methyl-2-pyrrolidone solvent and then dried. The NMC electrode loadings were ∼ 9.5 mg/cm 2 .

Electrochemistry. Replicate cells were assembled using a custom-built pouch con /uniFB01 guration with NMC622, Li metal anode, and a polyethylene separator. The electrolyte used for the cells contained 1.0 M LiPF6 with 70/30 (v/v) dimethyl carbonate and ethylene carbonate. Pouch cells with the following identi /uniFB01 cation were used for the study: fresh cell, formation cell, and cycled cell. The fresh cell was in the assembled state and did not experience any cycling prior to synchrotron measurement. The formation cell underwent formation cycling only while the cycled cell underwent 100 cycles after its formation prior to the operando experiments. The formation cycling protocol consisted of 4 cycles at C/10 rate between 3.0 and 4.3 V. The cycling protocol for the cycled cell included 100 cycles at C/2 rate between 3.0 and 4.3 V. EIS of pouch cells after initial charge, formation cycling, and extended cycling were measured using a BioLogic VSP potentiostat in the frequency range of 1 MHz to 100 mHz with a 5 mV sinus amplitude. Coin type cells were also assembled under an argon inert atmosphere for comparison with the operando pouch cells.

Operando XAS. XAS spectra were collected operando for each pouch cell at the National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLS-II) beamline 8-ID, Inner Shell Spectroscopy, at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Cells were (dis)charged at a rate of C/5 for one full cycle between 3.0 and 4.3 V. The fresh cell underwent one charge and discharge step. The formation and cycled cells were charged to 4.3 V, and measurements were collected during the subsequent discharge and charge processes. Ni, Co, and Mn K-edges were collected in transmission mode in succession with reference foils measured concurrently for calibration to 8333, 7709, and 6539 eV, respectively. Scans at each absorption edge were collected in 4 min intervals using randomized measurement positions within the electrode area. This type of measurement protocol was used to minimize beam damage in the cell and obtain representative data across the cell although it does lead to minor XAS data variability because of the reaction heterogeneity that can exist across an entire electrode. Athena software was used to process the raw spectra and evaluate the valence of Co and Mn by linear combination /uniFB01 tting (LCF). 34 The selected energy range for LCF included -20 eV below to 30 eV above the edge energy for the least squares /uniFB01 tting of normalized μ ( E ) spectra. The edge energy is de /uniFB01 ned as the maximum of the /uniFB01 rst derivative of μ ( E ). This method allows the fraction of components, that contribute to the spectrum, to be determined, using known references. 35 In this case, the TM valence could be accurately evaluated by using appropriate standards where the TM exists in chemically similar environments to the NMC material. 36,37 The following standards were used during the valence determination for Co and Mn: LiCoO2, Mn2O3, and MnO2. An additional delithiated LiCoO2 electrode standard was prepared to achieve a higher Co valence reference by charging a half cell to a controlled coulombic limit. Ni valence was determined from the Co and

Mn LCF results and the experimentally measured capacity during cycling, as described previously. 38,39 Brie /uniFB02 y, using the experimentally measured capacity at each XAS scan and the NMC622 theoretical capacity along with the average valences of Co and Mn, the average Ni valence can be determined.

EXAFS spectra /uniFB01 tting was carried out using Artemis and structural models calculated with FEFF6. 34 The structural model was developed using a LiNiO2 structure with a R 3 ̅ m space group and was kept constant throughout the /uniFB01 tting of each K-edge as all of the TM centers experience chemically similar environments. 39 -41 After preliminary /uniFB01 ts, the amplitude reduction factor ( S 0 2 ) for each edge was determined and held constant throughout /uniFB01 tting (0.79 for Ni, 0.83 for Co, and 0.81 for Mn), in a similar manner as previous reports. 40 -44 The coordination numbers (CNs) were set to the crystallographic values to allow the decoupling of Debye -Waller disorder factors ( σ 2 ). 41,42,45,46 Two scattering paths were used to model Co and Mn K-edges, which include M -O and M -M. Unlike Co and Mn, the higher concentration of Ni in the electrode and its higher edge energy allowed for /uniFB01 tting of higher interatomic distances due to the enhanced data quality. Thus, the expanded model captures four scattering paths that include M -O and M -M as well as the scattering paths relating to the atoms in the adjacent interlayers and intralayer, M -M (denoted as M -M2) and M -M -M (denoted as M -M3). 41 Fitting ranges for k were 3.4 -14.0, 3.0 -10.0, and 3.0 -10.5 Å -1 for Ni, Co, and Mn, respectively. The r ranges were 1 -3 Å for Co and Mn while 1 -5.7 Å was used for Ni to encompass four coordination shells. Fits were evaluated based on physical meaning and statistical signi /uniFB01 cance ( R -factor). The Li x NMC notation for representing Li x Ni0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 is utilized based on the theoretical capacity of 276.5 mA h/g. As in the case with the formation and cycled cells, the history of the electrochemistry was used for determining the Li contents.

Ex Situ Synchrotron XRD and XPS. XRD patterns and XPS spectra were collected on NMC powder and pristine NMC electrode material as well as NMC electrode materials in the fully charged and discharged states from fresh, formation, and cycled cells. Pouch cells were cycled to the indicated condition and then disassembled to harvest the cycled NMC materials. The di /uniFB00 raction data was collected using the 28-ID beamline at the National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLSII) at Brookhaven National Laboratory, NY with a 16 in. CsI scintillation detector, calibrated to an X-ray wavelength of 0.1917 Å using a LaB 6 standard. The two-dimensional patterns were integrated and re /uniFB01 ned using GSAS-II. 47 XPS spectra were collected at the Center for Functional Nanomaterials at Brookhaven National Laboratory, NY using a ultrahigh vacuum chamber equipped with a SPECS Phoibos 100 MCD analyzer. The X-ray source was non-monochromatized Al K α ( h ν = 1486.6 eV) while the accelerating voltage, current, and base pressure were 15 kV, 20 mA, and 2 × 10 -9 Torr, respectively. Powder and electrode samples were /uniFB01 xed to conductive Cu tape and charge corrected by calibrating the C 1s binding energy to 284.8 eV. The spectral regions probed included Ni 2p, Mn 2p, Co 2p, C 1s, O 1s, F 1s, P 1s, and Li 1s. For each spectral region, an E pass of 20 eV and step size of 0.05 eV were used, with a minimum of 10 scans per region. Argon sputtering was not performed to avoid unintended metal reduction. 48

## ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

XRD Characterization. NMC622 was characterized using synchrotron XRD for phase identi /uniFB01 cation and structure

Figure 1. Electrochemistry of (a) fresh cell, (b) formation cell, and (c) cycled cell during operando XAS data measurement. The colored circles represent when an individual XAS scan was collected. The grey voltage pro /uniFB01 le in (c) is from its /uniFB01 rst cycle after formation cycling to show the diminished delivered capacity.

<!-- image -->

parameters. The XRD pattern for the NMC622 material used for this investigation is shown in Figure S1. Rietveld re /uniFB01 nement of the pattern con /uniFB01 rms the R 3 ̅ m space group, resembling an α -NaFeO2-type hexagonal structure (Table S1). 40 The structure consists of alternating layers of edgesharing M -O octahedra (M = Ni, Co, Mn) and Li-ions. The lattice parameters a = 2.87189(4) Å and c = 14.2233(1) Å from the re /uniFB01 nement are in good agreement with previous reports of the NMC622 composition as well as the Li/Ni mixing in the 3a site, which was determined to be 2.8(2)%. 19,24

Operando XAS. Operando XAS was collected for the pouch cells at three di /uniFB00 erent stages of battery operation. The fresh cell data were collected during the /uniFB01 rst cycle post assembly. The formation cell and cycled cell underwent formation cycling and 100 C/2 cycles post formation cycling, respectively, prior to operando XAS measurements. All cycling remained within the voltage window of 3.0 -4.3 V to focus the evaluation on the e /uniFB00 ects of cycling using commercially applicable conditions. 49,50 As commonly used in the literature, four cycles at C/10 rate were used for the formation protocol. 51 Cells are studied and compared to identify key components of lithiation behavior, structural change, and degradation mechanism upon extended cycling. A pristine cell was used to capture lithiation behavior during the /uniFB01 rst cycle while the formation and cycled cells provide a comparison for the long-term e /uniFB00 ects of repeated cycles.

Electrochemistry. The /uniFB01 rst charge capacity reached 199 mA h/g (Li0.28NMC) while the /uniFB01 rst discharge capacity was 170 mA h/g (Li0.90NMC), similar to previous reports in this voltage window (Figure 1a). 17,28,49 The formation cell, starting in the charged state, discharged and then charged with capacities of 167 and 163 mA h/g, respectively, demonstrating the material ' s reversibility in the custom-built pouch cell (Figure 1b). These capacities correspond to Li content levels of Li0.25NMC to Li0.86NMC during discharge and then Li0.86NMC to Li0.27NMC during charge. Over the 100 cycles, the cycled cell capacity decreased from 165 to 117 mA h/g (Figure S2), any decrease in delivered capacity during operando measurement was likely due to stack pressure variation with the beamline-type cell /uniFB01 xture. Coin cell type data (Figure S3) is provided to highlight the e /uniFB00 ective electrochemistry of the operando cells. Nevertheless, the Li content cycled from Li0.31NMC to Li0.63NMC upon lithiation and back to Li0.29NMC upon delithiation (Figure 1c). The cycling capacities, voltage pro /uniFB01 les, and di /uniFB00 erential capacity curves for the cycled cell over 100 cycles are presented in Figure S2.

Fresh Cell Operando XANES. The fresh cell, starting with pristine NMC622 (Li1.0NMC), had edge energies of 8343.9, 7721.2, and 6551.8 eV for Ni, Co, and Mn edges, respectively. During the /uniFB01 rst delithiation, signi /uniFB01 cant edge shifts are observed at Ni and Co edges while the Mn edge does not shift signi /uniFB01 cantly (Figure 2). The edges shift to a higher energy, which indicates oxidation of the Ni and Co metal centers, with the largest magnitude of shifting observed with Ni. During lithiation, the edges shift back to lower energy, indicating reduction (Figure 3). Again, the Mn edge does not shift but the spectra throughout cycling do change in shape. Many previous reports have shown the minimal electrochemical

Figure 2. Normalized XANES spectra during the /uniFB01 rst charge of the fresh cell at the (a) Ni, (b) Co, and (c) Mn K-edges. The arrows indicate the direction of edge shifts.

<!-- image -->

Figure 3. Normalized XANES spectra during the /uniFB01 rst discharge of the fresh cell at the (a) Ni, (b) Co, and (c) Mn K-edges. The arrows indicate the direction of edge shifts.

<!-- image -->

activity of Mn in these types of NMC combinations, 7,11,25,52 which is also demonstrated here, while the changes in spectra indicate local structural changes around Mn.

LCF was performed to elucidate the valence states of the TM centers during cycling using the XANES spectra. Further information on the LCF method and valence determination is shown in Figure S4 and Tables S2 and S3. XAS measurements collected prior to electrochemical cycling indicate that the pristine material contains Ni 2.7+ , Co 3.0+ , and Mn 4.0+ and agrees well with previous reports that exhibit a Ni 2+ /Ni 3+ ratio of 1:2 (Ni 2.67+ ) in NMC622. 8,25,27 Additionally, the noteworthy agreement demonstrates the validity of the LCF method for determining the valence of the metals. 36,37,46 The valence states of each TM center are displayed with the corresponding Li content in Li x Ni0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 during cycling in Figure 4. During delithiation, Ni is immediately and continuously oxidized to Ni 3.7+ and then reduces in a similar fashion to Ni 2.9+ by the end of the /uniFB01 rst lithiation. Ni does not reach Ni 4+ due to the upper voltage cuto /uniFB00 of 4.3 V. As for Co, it is not immediately oxidized, unlike Ni, as it is mostly active at higher voltages. It does begin to oxidize at ∼ 3.8 V and then continues, eventually reaching Co 3.5+ . The lithiation process also indicates that Co is mainly active under higher voltages and mostly inactive at lower voltages, ultimately completing the lithiation close to Co 3+ . The electrochemical activity of Co is consistent with prior reports. 22,38,39,44,52 Mn remains as Mn 4+ throughout the entire /uniFB01 rst cycle, which reveals its inactivity in this voltage window and NMC composition, as expected, though structural variations are apparent. In summary, Ni and Co contribute on

Figure 4. Average Ni, Co, and Mn valence during the /uniFB01 rst cycle of the fresh cell.

<!-- image -->

average ∼ 67 and ∼ 33%, respectively, to the total delivered capacity while reversible spectral changes in the XANES pro /uniFB01 les are observed for all three edges indicating reversible local structure modulations.

Fresh Cell Operando EXAFS. Due to the nature of NMC cathode materials, there are only minor structure changes during cycling as it is a layered insertion material that facilitates the (de)intercalation of Li-ions. Therefore, detailed analyses via EXAFS modeling can yield ample information on the speci /uniFB01 c local structure changes occurring at selected K-edges. EXAFS spectra (Fourier transform of k 2 | χ ( k ) | ) for each scan and edge are shown in Figures 5 and 6 for the delithiation and lithiation processes, respectively. Due to phase shifts during the

Figure 5. EXAFS spectra during the /uniFB01 rst charge of the fresh cell at the (a) Ni, (b) Co, and (c) Mn K-edges. The arrows indicate the direction of peak intensity change.

<!-- image -->

Figure 6. EXAFS spectra during the /uniFB01 rst discharge of the fresh cell at the (a) Ni, (b) Co, and (c) Mn K-edges. The arrows indicate the direction of peak intensity change.

<!-- image -->

photoelectron scattering process, the measured atomic distances are ∼ 0.4 Å less than the actual atomic distances determined via EXAFS modeling. This mixed metal oxide displays two major scattering paths for each metal edge located at ∼ 1.5 and ∼ 2.5 Å, which correspond to M -O and M -M bonding, respectively. In addition to those two main contributors to the EXAFS signal, there are two more distant peaks at ∼ 4.6 and ∼ 5.3 Å that are also detectable and were included within the model for the Ni edge. Of these two distant spectral features, the /uniFB01 rst peak at ∼ 4.6 Å with a CN of 12 corresponds to 6 equivalent TM atoms within the intralayer

( ab plane) and another 6 atoms in the separate interlayers above and below the absorber ( c direction). The second distant peak at ∼ 5.3 Å is attributed to both 6 collinear M atoms in the intralayer and 6 M atoms within adjacent interlayers, which are multiple and single scattering paths, respectively. The amplitude of the 6 collinear M atoms is in /uniFB02 uenced by the focusing e /uniFB00 ect, where an additional scattering atom is located between the emitting atom and the scatterer. 32,41,53 Thus, the M -M (M -M2) and M -M -M (M -M3) paths give valuable insight into longer range structural changes as the lower r paths su /uniFB03 ciently describe the local structure variation within the intralayer. The atoms that correspond to each individual scattering path for the structural model used during EXAFS /uniFB01 tting are highlighted in Figure S5. The low concentration of Co and Mn within the material did not allow adequate detection of the high r peaks in the EXAFS spectra that correspond to distant atoms and require high resolution for modeling.

The Ni edge EXAFS spectra during cycling, shown in Figure 5a, display signi /uniFB01 cant and continuous changes in peak intensity of both Ni -O and Ni -M scattering paths with more signi /uniFB01 cant changes observed in the former, in agreement with the XANES analyses. The increasing intensity and narrowing of the Ni -O peak during delithiation is attributed to the alleviation of the JT e /uniFB00 ect. 38,40,43,46,54 The JT e /uniFB00 ect originates from d 7 Ni 3+ that forms during cycling through the redox couples of Ni 2+ /Ni 3+ and Ni 3+ /Ni 4+ in NMC electrodes, which has shown to be a two-step redox process. 32,40,41 JT distortion is characterized by the M -ligand bond lengths becoming inequivalent, hence the widening Ni -O peak. Speci /uniFB01 cally, there should be four short Ni -O bonds and two long Ni -O bonds for this geometric distortion. 29,43 These spectral changes are better represented with the /uniFB01 tted parameters obtained from EXAFS modeling (Figure 7). It is worth mentioning that interatomic distances determined from EXAFS correspond to the average bond distance, which does not give any information on the equivalencies of the bond lengths. Average bond length distortions can be attributed primarily to redox processes and not JT e /uniFB00 ects; however, JT e /uniFB00 ects can be characterized using the Debye -Waller disorder factor, which is discussed in another section. Speci /uniFB01 cally, the Ni -O and Ni -M average bond lengths contract signi /uniFB01 cantly from 1.99(1) to 1.88(1) and 2.87(1) to 2.81(1) Å during delithiation, respectively (Figure 7a). This outcome is also

Figure 7. Fitted interatomic distances for (a) Ni -O, Ni -M, Ni -M2, and Ni -M3, (b) Co -O and Co -M, and (c) Mn -O and Mn -Mand /uniFB01 tted Debye -Waller disorder factors for (d) Ni -O, (e) Co -O, (f) Mn -O, (g) Ni -M, (h) Co -M, and (i) Mn -Mduring the /uniFB01 rst cycle of the fresh cell. The fully lithiated pristine material (Li1NMC) underwent delithiation and then lithiation.

<!-- image -->

exhibited in the Ni -Mpeak, which increases in intensity but to a lesser extent due to it being part of the second coordination shell. The Ni -M2 and Ni -M3 atomic distances decrease signi /uniFB01 cantly as well from 5.00(2) to 4.87(3) and 5.77(1) to 5.69(1) Å, respectively, indicating interatomic distance contraction. The decreases in Ni -O and Ni -M bond lengths are due to the change in the e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge that is becoming stronger during oxidation, resulting in a bond length shortening. The two distant peak contractions must also occur for a similar reason as they are not an indicator of interlayer separation. Despite adjacent metal interlayer atoms contributing to the signals, the interatomic distances seem to be more dependent on the atoms within the intralayer and not the interlayers. This is reasonable because XAS probes short range order in materials. Many previous reports have identi /uniFB01 ed the partially delithiated H2 phase structure by an expansion in the c -axis using XRD. 10,53,55 -57 This is due to increased electrostatic interlayer repulsion of lattice O atoms induced by Li-ion removal. The structural response herein is correlated with the oxidation of TM centers, as mentioned previously, which attracts the O atoms and reduces M -O bond lengths. Nevertheless, the geometry of the Ni -M2 scattering path can explain why it has the largest interatomic distance change. The bent linkage that describes the Ni -M2 path is Ni -M -M but it is connected through M -O bonds. The adjacent Ni -M paths are contracted through the Ni -O bond due to the electrochemical activity of the Ni site, which makes the shortening of the Ni -M2 bond more signi /uniFB01 cant. This geometry also impacts the disorder discussed below. The Ni -M3 path reveals a bond length decrease that is more easily understood as it corresponds with the collinear adjacent M atoms that are part of the second coordination shell. The opposite behavior is observed during lithiation with Ni -O and Ni -M bonds increasing from 1.88(1) to 1.92(1) and 2.81(1) to 2.84(1) Å, respectively. In addition, the Ni -M2 and Ni -M3 bond distances increase from 4.87(3) to 4.96(3) and 5.69(1) to 5.73(1) Å, respectively. The same magnitude of bond length change during the /uniFB01 rst delithiation is not met during the /uniFB01 rst lithiation process due to the intrinsic unrecoverable Li during the /uniFB01 rst cycle. 58 The bond elongation of Ni -O, Ni -M, Ni -M2, and Ni -M3 during lithiation indicates Ni reduction as the incoming Li-ions reduce Ni and decrease its e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge.

The EXAFS spectra at the Co edge during cycling are presented in Figure 7b. The moderate amount of electrochemical activity, noted above, is also re /uniFB02 ected in the magnitude of the bond length changes surrounding Co. There is a clear Co -M peak intensity increase and shift to lower interatomic distance during delithiation while the reverse process is observed during lithiation. The Co -Opeak does not appear to change signi /uniFB01 cantly in the EXAFS spectra. EXAFS /uniFB01 tting shows that there are slight Co -O and Co -M bond length contractions during the /uniFB01 rst half of the /uniFB01 rst delithiation process due to the electrochemical inactivity of Co at lower potentials. However, as Co oxidizes during the second half of the delithiation, the bond length signi /uniFB01 cantly decreases with totals of 1.92(1) to 1.88(1) and 2.86(1) to 2.81(1) Å for Co -O and Co -M, respectively. This reduction in bond distance, speci /uniFB01 cally for Co -O, is a direct result of Co oxidation. Co 3.0+ is converted to Co 3.5+ and the higher e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge in the oxidized Co shortens the bond lengths of the octahedral O atoms. Lithiation reveals a bond length increase from 1.88(1) to 1.91(1) and 2.81(1) to 2.83(1) Å for Co -O and Co -M, respectively, which indicates reduction of Co centers. Though, there are other contributions originating from Ni, which was previously shown to have signi /uniFB01 cant impact on its own local structure. The interplay between Co and Ni is apparent as most of the Co -M bonds are actually Co -Ni, since the majority (60%) of TM centers are Ni. The in /uniFB02 uence of Ni on the local environment of Co is strong, especially for Co -M bonds as they follow the same trend as the Ni -M bonds and exhibit a similar magnitude of change despite Co being much less active than Ni.

As noted in the Mn edge XANES spectral feature changes, there are measurable structure variations in the Mn environment. Although electrochemically inactive, there is clear evidence of structural variations in the second coordination shell (Figure 7c) from the modulations observed in the EXAFS spectra during delithiation, speci /uniFB01 cally for the Mn -M scattering path intensity. Yet, there is no signi /uniFB01 cant M -O bond length variation during the entire cycle. This veri /uniFB01 es the electrochemical inactivity of Mn because there is no change in the valence state; thus, the constant e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge will /uniFB01 x the Mn -O bond distance. Moreover, Mn -O bonding associated with Mn -O -Ni or Mn -O -Co seems to not be in /uniFB02 uenced by Ni or Co activity owing partially to the structural support provided by Mn in NMC materials. 5,8,11 Though, the Mn -Mbond distances do vary signi /uniFB01 cantly, similarly to Ni -M and Co -M. During delithiation, the bond shortens from 2.88(1) to 2.83(1) Å and then lengthens from 2.83(1) to 2.86(1) Å during lithiation. Since the oxidation state of the Mn center does not signi /uniFB01 cantly change during cycling, this variation in interatomic distance must be caused by the redox activity of neighboring TMs.

In addition to interatomic bond distances, the Debye -Waller disorder factors ( σ 2 ) were also modeled for each scan and metal K-edge. The σ 2 values are displayed in Figure 7 for the M -O and M -M scattering paths of each edge while σ 2 values for Ni -M2 and Ni -M3 paths are presented in Figure S6. Only the Ni -O and Ni -M bonds revealed statistically signi /uniFB01 cant di /uniFB00 erences for the local paths during (de)lithiation while all other scattering paths present low and constant values during cycling based on the errors associated with EXAFS

It is reasonable to conclude that Co -M and Mn -M are highly dependent on Ni, in agreement with a previous report which suggests that Ni is primarily responsible for the strain in the material due to its greater redox activity compared to Co and Mn in NMC622. 28 Nearest neighboring O atoms around Mn do not signi /uniFB01 cantly change due to the electrochemical inactivity of Mn, yet Mn -M bond distances vary signi /uniFB01 cantly during cycling. The evolution of Co -M and Mn -M interatomic distances during cycling are nearly equivalent. Although Co is electrochemically active, the similar Co -Mand Mn -M bond distance variations suggest that the second coordination shell of Co is not strongly impacted by its own activity. Thus, the data indicate that Ni, which comprises 60% of the TM centers and is most electrochemically active, has substantial structural impacts on the two other TMs. The in /uniFB02 uence of distortion from Ni is not strong enough to vary the Mn -O bond lengths signi /uniFB01 cantly, which would be the only contributing factor in altering the bond lengths, since Mn is redox inactive. Therefore, it can be concluded that Co -O bonds are not strongly in /uniFB02 uenced by the activity of Ni and are almost exclusively dependent on Co redox activity. Furthermore, the structural rigidity granted by Mn seems to be only e /uniFB00 ective within the /uniFB01 rst coordination shell.

modeling. During delithiation, σ Ni -O 2 increases slightly until Li0.8NMC where it has a signi /uniFB01 cant downward trend from 8.8(9) × 10 -3 to 3.5(5) × 10 -3 Å 2 . Intriguingly, this increase and then decrease of the disorder factor is directly associated with the Ni 3+ population, which are JT distorted. In accordance with the average Ni valence, the σ Ni -O 2 begins to increase as the Ni 3+ population rises, reaching its peak quantity at Li 0.8NMC, and then it decreases as the population of Ni 3+ diminishes. This indicates that Ni -O at /uniFB01 rst becomes more disordered and then signi /uniFB01 cantly less disordered via further oxidation due to the diminishing amount of JT distorted Ni 3+ centers. The opposite e /uniFB00 ect is observed for σ Ni -O 2 during lithiation where the local Ni environment becomes more disordered as Ni 3+ forms and then appears to level o /uniFB00 or lower slightly due to the reduction below Ni 3+ , as measured in the Ni valence (Figure 4). Results of σ 2 for Ni are in agreement with the literature that show a general trend of decreased σ 2 during delithiation and increased σ 2 during lithiation, with maxima when Ni 3+ population is high. 40,41,44

Although not as profound as σ Ni -O 2 , there is a signi /uniFB01 cant trend in σ Ni -M 2 during cycling. The trend is similar as the σ Ni -M 2 values are lowest at low levels of lithiation and larger at higher levels of lithiation, which is congruent with the Ni 3+ population. This suggests that the JT distortion e /uniFB00 ects are perhaps strong enough to a /uniFB00 ect the second coordination shell through Ni -O -M linkages by a measurable amount. It is important to mention that the substantially changing σ Ni -O 2 values are primarily dependent on the structural variation caused by JT distortion and not thermal motion or e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge alteration via redox processes despite all phenomena occurring simultaneously. The Debye -Waller factor, relating to the structural and thermal disorder present, describes bond length distribution variance between the absorber -scatterer pair. 59,60 Increased e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge associated with TM center oxidation pulls each octahedral O atom closer to the TM center at the same rate, maintaining equivalent M -O bond distances during typical redox activity. Conversely, redox activity with JT distorted TM ions results in M -O bond distances that are inequivalent. Thus, the distinct M -O bond length variation directly contributes to the Debye -Waller disorder factor found in the Ni -O bonding. The broad Ni -O peaks in the EXAFS spectra are found to increase in intensity and become narrower concurrently, which is due to the Ni -O bond lengths becoming equivalent as the JT distortion is mitigated via further Ni oxidation. The high dependency of σ 2 values on JT distortion and not thermal motion or typical redox processes is further validated by the insigni /uniFB01 cant σ 2 variation in most other scattering paths. Especially in the case of Co -O bonds in which redox activity is present but strong JT distortion does not occur with Co 3+ or Co 4+ . Nonetheless, the JT-speci /uniFB01 c distortion can be clearly tracked using /uniFB01 tted Debye -Waller factors during cycling. Furthermore, the disorder surrounding Ni and the valence states from the XANES analysis are in notable agreement with each other in relation to the instances of the changing Ni 3+ population.

The σ 2 for the distant Ni scattering paths can also provide some revealing information. As for Ni -M2, the σ 2 values are much larger than what is found with the other scattering paths but are not outside of the acceptable range (0.003 -0.025 Å 2 ). 61 Additionally, these higher values have been reported previously in a similar investigation of the fourth coordination shell. 41 The reason for these large values is the greater degrees of freedom the atoms have that gives rise to the high bond distance variance. The scattering atoms in the intralayer are connected via a bent geometry while the interlayer atoms would assuredly be more disordered simply by residing within an adjacent layer. This is exhibited in the data, as the σ Ni -M2 2 and σ Ni -M3 2 values are larger than all other scattering paths except Ni -O. Intriguingly, σ Ni -M2 2 values during delithiation show a substantial increase from 7(1) × 10 -3 to 18(6) × 10 -3 Å 2 , which to note is the opposite trend observed for σ Ni -O 2 . This suggests that Ni -M2 bonds are becoming more disordered, likely due to their geometry. In terms of the intralayer contributing atoms, the absorbing Ni atom is connected to second shell M atoms by O atoms, which are connected to the fourth shell M atoms by O atoms in a bent type orientation. Not all metal atoms involved in this interconnectivity will be Ni, and thus the changes in M -O and M -M will not be identical. Thus, the very large σ 2 values for Ni -M2 are caused by the high bond variance with this geometry. The geometry of the Ni -M3 bonding is not the same and does not exhibit very large σ 2 values because it contains atoms collinear with the second shell M atoms. Thus, changes in σ 2 and interatomic distances of Ni -M3 will be similar to Ni -M and not Ni -M2, which the data re /uniFB02 ects.

The decrease in peak intensity observed for the Ni -M2 path during delithiation contrasts with the increase in peak intensity for Ni -O and Ni -M peaks. The variance in bond distance, described by the σ 2 parameter, is the probability of /uniFB01 nding an atom at a discrete distance and is proportional to the width of the peak in an EXAFS spectrum, with broader peaks caused by greater bond variance. Thus, the peak intensity is dependent on the prevalence of distorted coordination environments in addition to the CN. The JT e /uniFB00 ect alters the geometry of the coordination via elongating z -axis bonds resulting in bond inequivalences and by extension broader, less intense peaks. The peak intensity, CN, and disorder factor are all interrelated, as observed in the case of Ni -O where the disorder due to JT modulates the peak widths and intensities accordingly. 29 The simultaneous widening and broadening of the Ni -M2 peak upon delithiation indicates increased disorder associated with bond length inequivalences (Figure 5a). The interlayer atoms involved in Ni -M2 contribute to the disorder as the layer initially separates during Li extraction. In the case of lithiation, the trend in σ Ni -M2 2 appears to be opposite to that of the delithiation, although not statistically signi /uniFB01 cant. In contrast to the delithiation process, there are minimal intensity and width modulations in the Ni -M2 peak at ∼ 4.5 Å during lithiation (Figure 6a). This distinguishable di /uniFB00 erence suggests that the intralayer absorber -scatterer pair and interlayer interactions upon lithiation di /uniFB00 er from those of delithiation. A previous report found major di /uniFB00 erences in the Li-ion di /uniFB00 usion coe /uniFB03 cients determined during the /uniFB01 rst delithiation and lithiation processes. 24 It was revealed that D Li + during the course of lithiation followed a natural and continuous decreasing trend until close to the end of the discharge where it started to level o /uniFB00 . On the other hand, the D Li + values during delithiation, which in general is an energetically unfavorable process, do not follow a single trend. Upon initial delithiation, the D Li + has a stark drop to a minimum, then increases to about the maxima at ∼ 50% state of charge and then signi /uniFB01 cantly decreases until the end of the process. This interesting behavior was attributed to the complex changes occurring with interlayer spacing, e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge, electrolyte decomposition, as well as in /uniFB02 uences claimed to be

from defective spinel phases on the surface of active particles. Theoretically derived D Li + values have also revealed a noncontinuous behavior during delithiation. 8 The report con /uniFB01 rms that the varying di /uniFB00 usion behavior is highly dependent on the TM layer separation and Ni valency, which are understood to both contribute to the Li slab spacing. Although di /uniFB03 cult to pinpoint, the di /uniFB00 erences in the evolution of distant coordination paths observed herein are pronounced and may indicate di /uniFB00 erent delithiation and lithiation mechanisms in relation to non-local ordering.

There is noticeable irreversible capacity loss from the /uniFB01 rst charge (Figure 1a), which has been attributed to several di /uniFB00 erent factors, such as irreversible Li trapping, layer collapse, voltage limits, and sluggish Li-di /uniFB00 usion into lithiated NMC. 1,55,56,58 As typically found, the lithiation level does not reach its initial content, Li1.0NMC, and subsequently, the /uniFB01 tted r and σ 2 do not return to their starting values. This could be related to the open-circuit voltage hysteresis that is found between the delithiation and lithiation processes as seen in the potential curves. Hysteresis originates from di /uniFB00 ering chemical potentials of numerous active particles within an electrode that are in /uniFB02 uenced by irreversible phase changes, mechanical e /uniFB00 ects, and varying thermodynamic equilibria. 62,63 Noticeably, some hysteresis is observed here with the /uniFB01 tted r and σ 2 values not matching those at similar Li contents when comparing the delithiation and lithiation processes, besides those at the lowest lithiation levels. The changing r values that do not follow the same trajectories during the delithiation and lithiation steps but reach similar points at the end of the steps has also been observed previously but not discussed. 45 Such complexity in evaluating hysteresis comes from the fact that many of the contributors are actually path-dependent. Although the delithiation and lithiation reactions are the same and only di /uniFB00 er in direction, the innumerable reaction pathways that are taken during cycling determine the hysteresis e /uniFB00 ects, as they depend on the electrode ' s history. 64,65 Thus, it is apparent that the structural response from the cathode to repeated (de)insertion reactions is important for its ability to function properly long-term, which will be the focus of the next section.

The initial valence states determined via LCF of XANES spectra were in noteworthy agreement with the expected values for pristine NMC622. It was found that Ni, which contributes the majority of the delivered capacity, is electrochemically active throughout the entire voltage window. Conversely, Co is mainly redox active when experiencing higher voltages while Mn is not electrochemically active at all. Reversible redox couples of Ni and Co are exhibited but are slightly limited due to the irreversible capacity loss of the /uniFB01 rst cycle and, to some extent, the voltage limits. According to the EXAFS modeling results, there is signi /uniFB01 cant bond length contraction and expansion due to oxidation and reduction of Ni and Co metal centers induced by removal and insertion of Li, respectively. Ni contributes additional structural distortion due to JT distorted Ni 3+ that are formed during cycling. Consequently, the considerable redox activity and JT distortion a /uniFB00 ects the disorder around Ni, characterized using Debye -Waller factors, in addition to impacting local structures of Co and Mn, as seen in the Co/Mn -Mbond distances. The strong in /uniFB02 uence of Ni on the entire structure is not limited to only the local coordination shells; the more distant Ni -M peaks are also impacted by the activity of Ni. In the case of Ni -M2, the distortion e /uniFB00 ects are accentuated by the particular bonding linkage geometry. Overall, noteworthy agreement was shown between the electrochemical activity observed in the XANES spectra for each TM center and the variations in interatomic distances as well as the Debye -Waller disorder factors determined using EXAFS. Through these analyses, the structural responses of redox activity associated with evolving e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge and JT distortion were decoupled to showcase the speci /uniFB01 c in /uniFB02 uences that Ni has on the entire cathode structure.

Formation Cell and Cycled Cell. The previous section identi /uniFB01 ed key components of the (de)lithiation mechanisms of NMC622 during the /uniFB01 rst cycle post assembly, while the next section will include a comparison of the material behavior between a cell post formation cycling and a cell after extended cycling to investigate the degradation of the cathode material and the lithiation behavior as a result of 100 cycles. Formation cycling is an industry standard method of allowing assembled batteries to safely form an adequate solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) on the anode, which improves cycle life. 66 Thus, the formation cell represents a better initial state prior to long-term cycling for comparison rather than the fresh cell because of the irreversible capacity loss. Both cells were cycled with their speci /uniFB01 c conditions prior to synchrotron measurements and then operando XAS was collected during one full cycle.

Formation Cell and Cycled Cell Operando XANES. The formation cell XAS results reveal matching behavior to the fresh cell (Figure S7); the average valences for each TM center are shown in Figure 8a. The Ni edge is the most electrochemically active throughout the entire cycle, Co is less active than Ni, and Mn is not active. Speci /uniFB01 cally, the valence states of Ni during cycling indicate a reversible Ni 3.8+ / Ni 2.9+ redox couple while the Co valence redox couple is determined to be Co 3.5+ /Co 3.0+ . Co valence changes

Figure 8. Average Ni, Co, and Mn valence during (a) the /uniFB01 rst cycle after formation cycling of the formation cell and (b) the 101th cycle of the cycled cell.

<!-- image -->

Figure 9. Fitted interatomic distances for (a) Ni -O, Ni -M, Ni -M2, and Ni -M3, (b) Co -O and Co -M, and (c) Mn -O and Mn -Mand /uniFB01 tted Debye -Waller disorder factors for (d) Ni -O, (e) Co -O, (f) Mn -O, (g) Ni -M, (h) Co -M, and (i) Mn -M during the /uniFB01 rst after formation cycling. The NMC material underwent lithiation and then delithiation.

<!-- image -->

Figure 10. Fitted interatomic distances for (a) Ni -O, Ni -M, Ni -M2, and Ni -M3, (b) Co -Oand Co -M, and (c) Mn -Oand Mn -Mand /uniFB01 tted Debye -Waller disorder factors for (d) Ni -O, (e) Co -O, (f) Mn -O, (g) Ni -M, (h) Co -M, and (i) Mn -Mduring the 101th cycle of the cycled cell. The NMC material underwent lithiation and then delithiation.

<!-- image -->

throughout most of the cycle; however fewer substantial changes are observed at the bottom of the discharge. This inactivity in the lower voltage region was also found in the fresh cell and is characteristic of Co activity in such voltage windows. Based on inspection, Mn valence appears to have slightly reduced to Mn 3.9+ from Mn 4.0+ as a result of formation cycling; however, this is likely an insigni /uniFB01 cant di /uniFB00 erence due to the error associated with the LCF calculations, which is ∼ 0.1 valence state. Nevertheless, there are apparent XANES spectra shape changes for all edges, including Mn, indicating local structure variations. In stark contrast, the cycled cell XANES spectra at each edge exhibit very little shifting that indicates a lack of electrochemical activity (Figure S8). With closer examination, there are slight edge shifts that are more easily noticed in terms of valence state (Figure 8b), which demonstrates the diminished delivered capacity of the cycled cell. Ni is still active during the entire 101th cycle but the redox couple has been depressed to approximately Ni 3.7+ /Ni 3.5+ , as suggested previously. 22 Additionally, Co exhibits a depression in electrochemical activity after 100 cycles as well. The lack of activity is clearly revealed in the XANES spectra, which corresponds approximately to a Co 3.5+ /Co 3.3+ redox couple. As for the Mn XANES, the edge does not shift, remaining Mn 3.9+ , but there are minor variations in the shape of the XANES spectra, which indicate local structure changes. There is good agreement between the delivered capacity measured electro- chemically and the TM valence changes determined from the XANES. The XANES spectra analyses for each edge clearly reveal drastic di /uniFB00 erences in electrochemical activity when comparing to the formation cell, speci /uniFB01 cally with the redox activity of Ni and Co after 100 cycles.

Formation Cell and Cycled Cell Operando EXAFS. The formation cell EXAFS data display similar spectral variations to that of the fresh cell (Figure S9). There are signi /uniFB01 cant and reversible Ni -O and Ni -M peak intensity decreases and increases throughout the lithiation and delithiation processes as well as associated peak widening and narrowing, respectively (Figure S9a,d). The peak intensities and widths correspond to individual bond length changes induced by redox processes and JT distortion, respectively, at the Ni edge, similarly to the fresh cell. The Co edge exhibits slight peak intensity changes, mainly in the Co -Mpeak, with a similar trend and magnitude found for Ni edge. Moreover, there are also some minor peak intensity modulations at the Mn edge suggesting measurable changes in the coordination environment. The EXAFS spectra for the cycled cell indicate minimal structure change, speci /uniFB01 cally for Co and Mn (Figure S10). The Ni EXAFS spectra display familiar Ni -O peak intensity variations, which are characteristic of JT distortion. Thus, the primary electrochemically active TM center is undergoing similar structure changes as found in the formation cell but to a lesser extent, as validated by the limited XANES spectra shifting.

According to the EXAFS modeling results for the formation cell, the spectral variations indicate signi /uniFB01 cant bond length alterations (Figure 9). Brie /uniFB02 y, most scattering paths display signi /uniFB01 cant bond length expansions and contractions during lithiation and delithiation, respectively, which are correlated with Ni and Co redox. Mn -O bond lengths remain relatively stable throughout the cycle showing its inactivity and suggesting the activity of Ni is not strong enough to in /uniFB02 uence the /uniFB01 rst coordination shell of Mn. The two more distant peaks, describing the third and fourth coordination shells, reveal the same bond length elongation and contraction trends as the more local coordination shells, indicating the material is still functioning similarly to its /uniFB01 rst cycle. Contrary to the formation cell, the cycled cell presents minimal bond length variations in all scattering paths, though the paths describing the coordination environment of Ni suggest some structure change may still be detectable (Figure 10). The Ni -O and Ni -M interatomic distances exhibit a measurable elongation and contraction during lithiation and delithiation, respectively, but the variation is much less than that observed in the formation cell. The Ni -M2, Ni -M3, and Co -Mpaths appear to present this trend as well, while the other paths do not show any signi /uniFB01 cant variation. The limited bond distance variation during the 101th cycle is indicative of structural degradation in which the NMC material ' s (de)lithiation behavior is not similar to the formation cell.

The Debye -Waller disorder factors for the formation cell extracted from /uniFB01 tting display no di /uniFB00 erences during cycling for all paths, except Ni -O. The large σ Ni -O 2 increase and decrease during lithiation and delithiation, respectively, is associated with Ni 3+ JT distortion, which is contributing to signi /uniFB01 cant structural disorder and distortion. There is also good agreement between the high σ Ni -O 2 values and the presence of Ni 3+ for this cell. The instances of high Li content, which induces reduction of Ni, is well matched with the disorder observed when Ni 3+ is the dominant valence. All other paths display relatively low σ 2 values suggesting a low degree of disorder. As observed in the case of the fresh cell, Ni 3+ JT distortion is not strong enough to alter the disorder around Co or Mn centers. The σ Ni -O 2 values for the cycled cell follow the same behavior as the formation cell but to a much lesser magnitude. The σ Ni -M2 2 and σ Ni -M3 2 values for the formation and cycled cells (Figures S11 and S12) reveal no statistical di /uniFB00 erences but based on inspection, the σ Ni -M2 2 values for the formation cell appear to exhibit the same trend with increasing disorder upon delithiation, which was found with the fresh cell. This can be distinctly observed in the EXAFS spectra; the Ni -M2 peak width increases. However, the reverse of this e /uniFB00 ect is not found in the lithiation spectra. Interestingly, this feature of the delithiation data is clearly distinguishable and consistent between the fresh and formation cells possibly alluding to an important discrepancy between the delithiation and lithiation mechanisms of NMC622. Nonetheless, distinct di /uniFB00 erences in the cathode ' s lithiation behavior were exhibited between the formation and cycled cells; thus, rationalizing these e /uniFB00 ects is an important discussion of the material ' s response to extended cycling.

Formation Cell and Cycled Cell Comparison. The delivered capacities of each cell were substantially di /uniFB00 erent and the lithiation behavior as well as the structural response can be used to help explain the poor delivered capacity found after 100 cycles. In general, the formation cell demonstrates behavior that is typical of metal oxide intercalation materials during initial cycles, while the changes in the spectra are associated with the factors mentioned above. The resulting electrochemistry for the cells and each of their TM electrochemical contributions to the redox was examined and compared. Consistent with its expected activity, Mn valence remains constant even after extended cycling. 67 Ni and Co both show hindered electrochemical activity as a result of extended cycling. Their redox couples are signi /uniFB01 cantly diminished as there is an inability to reach lower valence on charge and higher valence on discharge. Moreover, this is corroborated with the local environment of Ni and Co indicating minimal redox activity by virtue of relatively small bond contractions or expansions. Ni is understood to be more redox active than Co based on the complete redox couples of Ni 2+ /Ni 3+ /Ni 4+ and Co 3+ /Co 4+ . Therefore, Ni and Co are expected to contribute to 2/3 and 1/3 of the capacity, respectively. 68 This spread is found with the fresh cell, while the formation cell is similar with ∼ 70 and ∼ 30% capacity contribution from Ni and Co, respectively. However, the cycled cell reveals ∼ 57 and ∼ 43% capacity contribution from Ni and Co, respectively, indicating a reduced redox ability of Ni despite its expected higher electrochemically activity. Consequently, the cycled cell delivered capacity su /uniFB00 ered. In accordance with the lack of electrochemical activity found in the XANES spectra, the EXAFS spectra indicate minimal redox related bond length changes after 100 cycles. This helps explain the observed capacity fade and low delivered capacity of the cycled cell in which the material is not undergoing much redox, as correlated with the lack of edge shift and bond length variation. The disorder, as characterized in the formation cell, will likely have compounding e /uniFB00 ects over repeated cycles, inducing degradation. Material degradation and diminished (de)lithiation reversibility due to extended cycling have been previously demonstrated as minimal structural response. 26,53 One previous report on NMC622 found some TM dissolution from the cathode material to occur and can be detrimental to cyclability at increasing concentrations by consuming active Li through SEI decomposition on the graphite anode. 23 However, this type of behavior was induced by large voltage windows (2.5 -4.6 V) and results in divalent cation deposition onto the anode. Due to the relatively high and stable valences found after cycling for each TM and the modest upper and lower voltage limits, it is unlikely that TM dissolution is a signi /uniFB01 cant factor in the structural degradation or subsequent capacity fade demonstrated here.

To provide support to the XAS /uniFB01 ndings and to further elucidate degradation processes, additional characterization was performed. The use of complementary techniques including XRD and XPS enable a more comprehensive understanding of the crystal structure and surface chemistry evolution. Synchrotron XRD measurements were collected on the pristine electrode and cycled electrodes (Figure S13). Rietveld re /uniFB01 nements were performed to extract speci /uniFB01 c structural information (Table S4). Additional detailed XRD discussions are reported in the Supporting Information. Brie /uniFB02 y, all patterns can be indexed to the hexagonal crystal structure but deviate further from the original structure after extended cycling. In addition, no other phases, such as spinel or rock salt, are observable using this bulk technique. Nevertheless, there are clear and signi /uniFB01 cant structure changes occurring, which are most noticeable in the (003) and (104) peaks (Figure S14). The c -axis, which corresponds to the interlayer spacing, increases upon delithiation and decreases upon

lithiation. This is a result of the electrostatic repulsion of the oxygen atoms in the absence or presence of Li cations. 23 Concurrently, the structure exhibits the opposite e /uniFB00 ect in the a lattice parameter, which is dependent on the TM -O interaction strength during redox. The structural changes occurring after initial and formation cycling correspond to H1 and H2 hexagonal phase reversibility in which no irreversible structure change exists. 10 However, the materials after 100 cycles indicate a substantial structure change when compared to the formation cycled materials. Most notably, the c / a ratio for the materials in the charged and discharged states, respectively, clearly increase as a result of cycling, which indicates lattice distortion. 26 The c lattice constants exhibit larger values in the cycled materials. 53,69 Another important parameter that can quantify layered structure breakdown is the Li/Ni site disorder. 1 As indicated by the I 003/ I 104 peak intensity ratio and the Li/Ni mixing ratio from Rietveld re /uniFB01 nements, the amount of Li/Ni site disorder increases after extended cycling. The increased presence of Ni within the Li layer signi /uniFB01 es a precursor to detrimental spinel and eventually rock salt structure formation. These distinct structural di /uniFB00 erences all represent irreversible lattice changes that characterize its degradation and contribute to capacity fade.

In parallel with the XRD measurements, XPS spectra in the Ni 2p, Mn 2p, Co 2p, C 1s, O 1s, F 1s, P 2p, and Li 1s regions were collected on the NMC powder, pristine electrode, and cycled electrodes (Figures S15 -S17). The TM 2p3/2 spectra for the powder were /uniFB01 t to determine the valence of each metal (Figure S15). The /uniFB01 tting results indicate valences of Ni 2.7+ , Mn 4+ , and Co 3+ , which match well with the literature and the XAS results reported herein. The TM 2p3/2 spectra of the electrodes display interference with other transitions and have low intensities, making valence state determination using XPS inconclusive. This highlights the utility of XANES for valence determination in NMC electrodes, due to their complex multicomponent composition. To investigate the extent of cathode -electrolyte interphase (CEI) buildup, an elemental analysis was performed on CEI-related elements from the pristine and cycled electrode spectra (Figure S18). A detailed discussion of the XPS results is located in the Supporting Information. Brie /uniFB02 y, the amount of CEI is clearly shown to rise by the increasing C -O/C -C bond ratio and total oxygen content upon further cycling. P-containing species, which correspond to LiPF6 decomposition products, appear after formation cycling and increase upon extended cycling. The CEI buildup is also characterized by the formation of LiF, which is only detectable after 100 cycles, along with Li2CO3.

Limited Li-ion di /uniFB00 usion and inadequate electrical conductivity are a result of the structural degradation that occurs during cycling and contribute to polarizing the electrode. 70 The polarization negatively impacts the electrochemical activity of the materials mainly by altering the redox potentials from their thermodynamically derived reduction potentials, that is overpotential, due to the associated rise in resistance. This is demonstrated in the electrochemical impedance response collected on cells at the three di /uniFB00 erent stages (Figure S19). Fitted resistances from equivalent circuit modeling indicate a sharp increase (&gt;200%) in charge transfer resistance at the cathode after extended cycling (Table S5), consistent with the decreased redox activity observed via XAS. Another notable e /uniFB00 ect on the cell as a result of extended cycling is the signi /uniFB01 cant rise (&gt;600%) of the impedance component corresponding to surface passivation /uniFB01 lms. This /uniFB01 nding suggests signi /uniFB01 cant growth of a passivation layer and is in good agreement with the XPS results, which show notable changes in the CEI surface chemistry after cycling. Full discussion of the impedance analysis is included in the Supporting Information. Furthermore, structurally degraded NMC electrodes with high impedance will have the e /uniFB00 ect of lowering the lithiation potential during discharge below the open circuit potential and the opposite is true in raising the delithiation potential during charge. 71 This outcome is revealed in the di /uniFB00 erential capacity curves over 100 cycles for the cycled cell (Figure S2c), which display this phenomenon resulting from the increased resistance. 13 E /uniFB00 ectively, the increased internal resistance of the cell enables the operating voltage window limits to be reached prior to the onset potential of TM redox. In this case, the electrochemical activity of Ni and Co is impacted by the irreversible phase changes and associated e /uniFB00 ects. The electrode polarization impact on Ni is considerable enough for the capacity contribution to stray from the expected activity. As demonstrated above, Ni has signi /uniFB01 cant redox-related average bond length changes coexisting with JT distortion, both contributing to structural variation and disorder. On the other hand, Co is less redox active and does not experience strong JT distortion here. Thus, Ni acts as the main contributor to disorder, and so the structural degradation will originate and be localized at the Ni centers. Therefore, it is likely that the structural disorder and associated polarization around Ni can substantially impact its redox activity and enable the cell voltage limits to be reached prior to its onset (de)lithiation potential.

Additionally, the compounding mechanical e /uniFB00 ects of structural degradation lead to portions of the electrode becoming electrically disconnected, which can result in NMC particles as well as large regions of the electrode becoming electrochemically inactive. 57 Direct evidence of particle isolation and particle non-uniform charge distribution has been reported for NMC622. 27 Moreover, the sequestered particles limit electrical transport in the electrode, which in addition to a notable degree of intraparticle charge heterogeneity, contribute to polarization. The material ' s ability to reversibly intercalate Li-ions is hindered, as observed in the low delivered capacity due to irreversible phase changes and CEI buildup. 24 -26 The di /uniFB00 erences found in the lithiation behavior as a result of extended cycling are clearly demonstrated in the electrochemistry, XANES, and EXAFS data and supported by XRD, XPS, and EIS analyses.

## ■ CONCLUSIONS

The (de)lithiation mechanisms of NMC622 were investigated for the /uniFB01 rst time using operando XAS for fresh, formed, and cycled cells. The electrochemical activity of Ni during (de)lithiation was identi /uniFB01 ed by the signi /uniFB01 cant shift in the XANES spectra as well as large changes in coordination geometry as exhibited by the EXAFS analyses. Co was found to contribute to the cell ' s capacity as well, particularly in the higher voltage regions, where its coordination environment changes were similar to that of Ni. In contrast, Mn exhibited no electrochemical activity as indicated by XANES, but its coordination environment was in /uniFB02 uenced by the electrochemical activity of Ni and, to a lesser extent, Co. Signi /uniFB01 cant bond length expansion and contraction were observed in the majority of the modeled interatomic distances as a result of redox activity in the fresh cell. The bond length distribution

variance of atoms was evaluated using the /uniFB01 tted Debye -Waller disorder factors. This disorder, which is primarily a result of JT distorted Ni 3+ centers, was tracked during cycling and contributed to the overall structure strain and subsequent material degradation. Excellent agreement was found between the electrochemical activity observed in the XANES spectra for the speci /uniFB01 c TM centers and their corresponding interatomic distances. In addition, the presence of JT distorted Ni 3+ was correlated with the σ Ni -O 2 values found at speci /uniFB01 c lithiation levels. These analyses enabled discrimination of the local structural variation dependence on the metal centers e /uniFB00 ective nuclear charge modulation and the JT distortion of Ni 3+ .

Additionally, material degradation was noted by comparing operando XAS results of the formation and cycled cells. The formation cell exhibited electrochemical activity for Ni with a smaller contribution from Co, as evidenced by XANES spectra. The electrochemistry of the cycled cell displayed capacity fade throughout 100 cycles. Comparisons between operando XANES data collected on these two cells indicated diminished Ni and Co redox. Further, the magnitude of the trends in bond expansion and contraction found in the formation cell were not observed to the same extent in the cycled cell. The minimal structure changes of the cycled cell identi /uniFB01 ed from EXAFS modeling were corroborated by the XANES results and the diminished electrochemical activity. Additionally, irreversible phase change, CEI buildup, and impedance rise revealed via XRD, XPS, and EIS analyses result in increased polarization and contribute to the limited Ni and Co redox activity. The e /uniFB00 ects of extended cycling on a Ni-rich NMC material were explored, and the results expanded the understanding of diminished electrochemical activity induced by structural degradation. Characterizing and comparing three cell types and rationalizing the e /uniFB00 ects of extended cycling on the NMC622 cathode material is of high value for future Ni-rich NMC battery material design and particularly relevant for EV applications.

## ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT

## * s ı Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c08095.

XRD of pristine NMC622, cycled cell electrochemistry, description of the crystal structure model used for EXAFS /uniFB01 tting, disorder parameters for the third and fourth coordination shells, XANES and EXAFS spectra for the formation and cycled cells, XRD patterns and associated discussion of pristine and cycled electrode materials, XPS spectra and discussion of pristine cycled electrode materials, and EIS analysis and discussion of cycled cells (PDF)

## ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION

## Corresponding Authors

Esther S. Takeuchi -Department of Chemistry, Department of Materials Science and Chemical Engineering, and Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United

David C. Bock -Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United States; Interdisciplinary Science Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States ; Email: dbock@bnl.gov

States; Interdisciplinary Science Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United

States;

orcid.org/0000-0001-8518-1047;

Email: esther.takeuchi@stonybrook.edu

## Authors

Garrett P. Wheeler -Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United States; Interdisciplinary Science Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States

Killian R. Tallman -Department of Chemistry and Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United States

Christopher J. Kern -Department of Chemistry and Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United States

Xiao Tong -Center for Functional Nanomaterials, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States

Eli Stavitski -National Synchrotron Light Source II, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States

Kenneth J. Takeuchi -Department of Chemistry, Department of Materials Science and Chemical Engineering, and Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United States; orcid.org/0000-0001-8129-444X

Amy C. Marschilok -Department of Chemistry, Department of Materials Science and Chemical Engineering, and Institute for Electrochemically Stored Energy, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 11794, United States; Interdisciplinary Science Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, United States; orcid.org/0000-0001-9174-0474

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c08095

## Notes

The authors declare no competing /uniFB01 nancial interest.

## ■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors acknowledge Mercedes-Benz Research and Development North America (MBRDNA) for supporting the studies relevant to NMC. Development of the pouch cell assembly and operando testing methodology was supported as part of the Center for Mesoscale Transport Properties, an Energy Frontier Research Center funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, O /uniFB03 ce of Science, Basic Energy Sciences, under award # DE-SC0012673. The pouch cell assembly line was supported under award 75039 from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) and award 76890 from the New York State Department of Economic Development (DED), which were provided as matching funds to the Center of Mesoscale Transport Properties. NYSERDA has not reviewed the information contained herein, and the opinions expressed do not necessarily re /uniFB02 ect those of NYSERDA, or the State of New York. Any opinions, /uniFB01 ndings, conclusions, or recommendations expressed are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily re /uniFB02 ect the views of the DED. This research used resources of

beamline 8-ID Inner-Shell Spectroscopy (ISS) of the National Synchrotron Light Source II, a U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), O /uniFB03 ce of Science User Facility operated for the DOE O /uniFB03 ce of Science by Brookhaven National Laboratory under contract no. DE-SC0012704. In addition, this research used resources of the Center for Functional Nanomaterials, which is a U.S. DOE O /uniFB03 ce of Science User Facility, at Brookhaven National Laboratory under contract no. DE-SC0012704. Funding from Brookhaven National Laboratory is acknowledged for partial support of the XAS analysis. The authors gratefully acknowledge the useful discussions with Dr. Alyson Abraham. E.S.T. acknowledges support as the William and Jane Knapp Chair in Energy and the Environment.

## ■ REFERENCES

- (1) Li, T.; Yuan, X.-Z.; Zhang, L.; Song, D.; Shi, K.; Bock, C. Degradation Mechanisms and Mitigation Strategies of Nickel-Rich NMC-Based Lithium-Ion Batteries. Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2020 , 3 , 43 -80.
- (2) Rozier, P.; Tarascon, J. M. Review-Li-Rich Layered Oxide Cathodes for Next-Generation Li-Ion Batteries: Chances and Challenges. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2015 , 162 , A2490 -A2499.
- (3) Wentker, M.; Greenwood, M.; Leker, J. A Bottom-Up Approach to Lithium-Ion Battery Cost Modeling with a Focus on Cathode Active Materials. Energies 2019 , 12 , 504.
- (4) Kim, J.; Lee, H.; Cha, H.; Yoon, M.; Park, M.; Cho, J. Prospect and Reality of Ni-Rich Cathode for Commercialization. Adv. Energy Mater. 2018 , 8 , 1702028.
- (5) Jung, S.-K.; Gwon, H.; Hong, J.; Park, K.-Y.; Seo, D.-H.; Kim, H.; Hyun, J.; Yang, W.; Kang, K. Understanding the Degradation Mechanisms of LiNi0.5Co0.2Mn0.3O2 Cathode Material in Lithium Ion Batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 2014 , 4 , 1300787.
- (6) Bak, S.-M.; Hu, E.; Zhou, Y.; Yu, X.; Senanayake, S. D.; Cho, S.J.; Kim, K.-B.; Chung, K. Y.; Yang, X.-Q.; Nam, K.-W. Structural changes and thermal stability of charged LiNixMnyCozO2 cathode materials studied by combined in situ time-resolved XRD and mass spectroscopy. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2014 , 6 , 22594 -22601.
- (7) Tian, C.; Lin, F.; Doeff, M. M. Electrochemical Characteristics of Layered Transition Metal Oxide Cathode Materials for Lithium Ion Batteries: Surface, Bulk Behavior, and Thermal Properties. Acc. Chem. Res. 2018 , 51 , 89 -96.
- (8) Wei, Y.; Zheng, J.; Cui, S.; Song, X.; Su, Y.; Deng, W.; Wu, Z.; Wang, X.; Wang, W.; Rao, M.; et al. Kinetics Tuning of Li-Ion Diffusion in Layered Li(NixMnyCoz)O2. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015 , 137 , 8364 -8367.
- (9) Xia, Y.; Zheng, J.; Wang, C.; Gu, M. Designing principle for Nirich cathode materials with high energy density for practical applications. Nano Energy 2018 , 49 , 434 -452.
- (10) Quilty, C. D.; Bock, D. C.; Yan, S.; Takeuchi, K. J.; Takeuchi, E. S.; Marschilok, A. C. Probing Sources of Capacity Fade in LiNi0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 (NMC622): An Operando XRD Study of Li/ NMC622 Batteries during Extended Cycling. J. Phys. Chem. C 2020 , 124 , 8119 -8128.
- (11) Sharifi-Asl, S.; Lu, J.; Amine, K.; Shahbazian-Yassar, R. Oxygen Release Degradation in Li-Ion Battery Cathode Materials: Mechanisms and Mitigating Approaches. Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1900551.
- (12) Li, H.; Liu, A.; Zhang, N.; Wang, Y.; Yin, S.; Wu, H.; Dahn, J. R. An Unavoidable Challenge for Ni-Rich Positive Electrode Materials for Lithium-Ion Batteries. Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 7574 -7583.
- (13) Noh, H.-J.; Youn, S.; Yoon, C. S.; Sun, Y.-K. Comparison of the structural and electrochemical properties of layered Li[NixCoyMnz]O2 (x = 1/3, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.85) cathode material for lithium-ion batteries. J. Power Sources 2013 , 233 , 121 -130.
- (14) Zheng, J.; Liu, T.; Hu, Z.; Wei, Y.; Song, X.; Ren, Y.; Wang, W.; Rao, M.; Lin, Y.; Chen, Z.; et al. Tuning of Thermal Stability in
15. Layered Li(NixMnyCoz)O2. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016 , 138 , 13326 -13334.
- (15) Hwang, S.; Kim, S. M.; Bak, S.-M.; Kim, S. Y.; Cho, B.-W.; Chung, K. Y.; Lee, J. Y.; Stach, E. A.; Chang, W. Using Real-Time Electron Microscopy To Explore the Effects of Transition-Metal Composition on the Local Thermal Stability in Charged LixNiyMnzCo1 -y -zO2 Cathode Materials. Chem. Mater. 2015 , 27 , 3927 -3935.
- (16) Konishi, H.; Yuasa, T.; Yoshikawa, M. Thermal stability of Li 1 -yNixMn(1 -x)/2Co(1 -x)/2O2 layer-structured cathode materials used in Li-Ion batteries. J. Power Sources 2011 , 196 , 6884 -6888.
- (17) Ma, L.; Nie, M.; Xia, J.; Dahn, J. R. A systematic study on the reactivity of different grades of charged Li[NixMnyCoz]O2 with electrolyte at elevated temperatures using accelerating rate calorimetry. J. Power Sources 2016 , 327 , 145 -150.
- (18) Xiong, D. J.; Hynes, T.; Ellis, L. D.; Dahn, J. R. Effects of Surface Coating on Gas Evolution and Impedance Growth at Li[NixMnyCo1 -x -y]O2 Positive Electrodes in Li-Ion Cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2017 , 164 , A3174 -A3181.
- (19) Zhang, N.; Li, J.; Li, H.; Liu, A.; Huang, Q.; Ma, L.; Li, Y.; Dahn, J. R. Structural, Electrochemical, and Thermal Properties of Nickel-Rich LiNixMnyCozO2 Materials. Chem. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 8852 -8860.
- (20) Wu, Z.; Ji, S.; Hu, Z.; Zheng, J.; Xiao, S.; Lin, Y.; Xu, K.; Amine, K.; Pan, F. Pre-Lithiation of Li(Ni 1 -x -yMnxCoy)O2 Materials Enabling Enhancement of Performance for Li-Ion Battery. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016 , 8 , 15361 -15368.
- (21) Jung, R.; Metzger, M.; Maglia, F.; Stinner, C.; Gasteiger, H. A. Oxygen Release and Its Effect on the Cycling Stability of LiNixMnyCozO2 (NMC) Cathode Materials for Li-Ion Batteries. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2017 , 164 , A1361 -A1377.
- (22) Xu, J.; Hu, E.; Nordlund, D.; Mehta, A.; Ehrlich, S. N.; Yang, X.-Q.; Tong, W. Understanding the Degradation Mechanism of Lithium Nickel Oxide Cathodes for Li-Ion Batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016 , 8 , 31677 -31683.
- (23) Jung, R.; Linsenmann, F.; Thomas, R.; Wandt, J.; Solchenbach, S.; Maglia, F.; Stinner, C.; Tromp, M.; Gasteiger, H. A. Nickel, Manganese, and Cobalt Dissolution from Ni-Rich NMC and Their Effects on NMC622-Graphite Cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2019 , 166 , A378 -A389.
- (24) Wang, Q.; Shen, C.-H.; Shen, S.-Y.; Xu, Y.-F.; Shi, C.-G.; Huang, L.; Li, J.-T.; Sun, S.-G. Origin of Structural Evolution in Capacity Degradation for Overcharged NMC622 via Operando Coupled Investigation. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017 , 9 , 24731 -24742.
- (25) Tian, C.; Nordlund, D.; Xin, H. L.; Xu, Y.; Liu, Y.; Sokaras, D.; Lin, F.; Doeff, M. M. Depth-dependent redox behavior of LiNi0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2018 , 165 , A696 -A704.
- (26) Ruan, Y.; Song, X.; Fu, Y.; Song, C.; Battaglia, V. Structural evolution and capacity degradation mechanism of LiNi0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 cathode materials. J. Power Sources 2018 , 400 , 539 -548.
- (27) Tian, C.; Xu, Y.; Nordlund, D.; Lin, F.; Liu, J.; Sun, Z.; Liu, Y.; Doeff, M. Charge Heterogeneity and Surface Chemistry in Polycrystalline Cathode Materials. Joule 2018 , 2 , 464 -477.
- (28) Mao, Y.; Wang, X.; Xia, S.; Zhang, K.; Wei, C.; Bak, S.; Shadike, Z.; Liu, X.; Yang, Y.; Xu, R.; et al. High-Voltage Charging-Induced Strain, Heterogeneity, and Micro-Cracks in Secondary Particles of a Nickel-Rich Layered Cathode Material. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019 , 29 , 1900247.
- (29) Konishi, H.; Yoshikawa, M.; Hirano, T.; Hidaka, K. Evaluation of thermal stability in Li 0.2NixMn(1 -x)/2Co(1 -x)/2 O2 (x = 1/3, 0.6, and 0.8) through X-ray absorption fine structure. J. Power Sources 2014 , 254 , 338 -344.
- (30) Usubelli, C.; Besli, M. M.; Kuppan, S.; Jiang, N.; Metzger, M.; Dinia, A.; Christensen, J.; Gorlin, Y. Understanding the Overlithiation Properties of LiNi 0.6Mn0.2Co0.2O2 Using Electrochemistry and DepthResolved X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2020 , 167 , 080514.

- (31) Kondrakov, A. O.; Geßwein, H.; Galdina, K.; De Biasi, L.; Meded, V.; Filatova, E. O.; Schumacher, G.; Wenzel, W.; Hartmann, P.; Brezesinski, T.; Janek, J. Charge-Transfer-Induced Lattice Collapse in Ni-Rich NCM Cathode Materials During Delithiation. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017 , 121 , 24381 -24388.
- (32) Liao, P.-Y.; Duh, J.-G.; Lee, J.-F.; Sheu, H.-S. Structural investigation of Li 1 -x Ni0.5Co0.25Mn0.25O2 by in situ XAS and XRD measurements. Electrochim. Acta 2007 , 53 , 1850 -1857.
- (33) Jahrman, E. P.; Pellerin, L. A.; Ditter, A. S.; Bradshaw, L. R.; Fister, T. T.; Polzin, B. J.; Trask, S. E.; Dunlop, A. R.; Seidler, G. T. Laboratory-Based X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy on a Working Pouch Cell Battery at Industrially-Relevant Charging Rates. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2019 , 166 , A2549 -A2555.
- (34) Ravel, B.; Newville, M. ATHENA, ARTEMIS, HEPHAESTUS: data analysis for X-ray absorption spectroscopy using IFEFFIT. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2005 , 12 , 537 -541.
- (35) Gaur, A.; Shrivastava, B. D.; Joshi, S. K. Copper K-edge XANES of Cu(I) and Cu(II) oxide mixtures. J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 2009 , 190 , 012084.
- (36) Manceau, A.; Marcus, M. A.; Grangeon, S. Determination of Mn valence states in mixed-valent manganates by XANES spectroscopy. Am. Mineral. 2012 , 97 , 816 -827.
- (37) Singh, H.; Sinha, A. K.; Singh, M. N.; Tiwari, P.; Phase, D. M.; Deb, S. K. Spectroscopic and structural studies of isochronally annealed cobalt oxide nanoparticles. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 2014 , 75 , 397 -402.
- (38) Deb, A.; Bergmann, U.; Cramer, S. P.; Cairns, E. J. In Situ XRay Absorption Spectroscopic Study of Li 1.05 Ni0.35Co0.25Mn0.4O2 Cathode Material Coated with LiCoO2. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2007 , 154 , A534 -A541.
- (39) Deb, A.; Bergmann, U.; Cramer, S. P.; Cairns, E. J. In situ x-ray absorption spectroscopic study of the Li[Ni1/3Co1/3Mn1/3]O2 cathode material. J. Appl. Phys. 2005 , 97 , 113523.
- (40) Chen, C.-H.; Pan, C.-J.; Su, W.-N.; Rick, J.; Wang, C.-J.; Venkateswarlu, M.; Lee, J.-F.; Hwang, B.-J. Operando X-ray diffraction and X-ray absorption studies of the structural transf o r mation upon cycling excess Li l a y e r e d oxide Li[Li1/18Co1/6Ni1/3Mn4/9]O2 in Li ion batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 2015 , 3 , 8613 -8626.
- (41) Tsai, Y. W.; Hwang, B. J.; Ceder, G.; Sheu, H. S.; Liu, D. G.; Lee, J. F. In-Situ X-ray Absorption Spectroscopic Study on Variation of Electronic Transitions and Local Structure of LiNi1/3Co1/3Mn1/3O2 Cathode Material during Electrochemical Cycling. Chem. Mater. 2005 , 17 , 3191 -3199.
- (42) Yoon, W.-S.; Balasubramanian, M.; Chung, K. Y.; Yang, X.-Q.; McBreen, J.; Grey, C. P.; Fischer, D. A. Investigation of the Charge Compensation Mechanism on the Electrochemically Li-Ion Deintercalated Li 1 -xCo1/3Ni1/3Mn1/3O2 Electrode System by Combination of Soft and Hard X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005 , 127 , 17479 -17487.
- (43) Yoon, W.-S.; Grey, C. P.; Balasubramanian, M.; Yang, X.-Q.; McBreen, J. In Situ X-ray Absorption Spectroscopic Study on LiNi0.5Mn0.5O2 Cathode Material during Electrochemical Cycling. Chem. Mater. 2003 , 15 , 3161 -3169.
- (44) Yu, X.; Lyu, Y.; Gu, L.; Wu, H.; Bak, S.-M.; Zhou, Y.; Amine, K.; Ehrlich, S. N.; Li, H.; Nam, K.-W.; et al. Understanding the Rate Capability of High-Energy-Density Li-Rich Layered Li 1.2 Ni0.15Co0.1Mn0.55O2 Cathode Materials. Adv. Energy Mater. 2014 , 4 , 1300950.
- (45) Koga, H.; Croguennec, L.; Me ́ ne ́ trier, M.; Mannessiez, P.; Weill, F.; Delmas, C.; Belin, S. Operando X-ray Absorption Study of the Redox Processes Involved upon Cycling of the Li-Rich Layered Oxide Li1.20 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni0.13 O2 in Li Ion Batteries. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014 , 118 , 5700 -5709.
- (46) Rumble, C.; Conry, T. E.; Doeff, M.; Cairns, E. J.; PennerHahn, J. E.; Deb, A. Structural and Electrochemical Investigation of Li(Ni0.4 Co0.15 Al0.05Mn0.4)O2 Cathode Material. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010 , 157 , A1317 -A1322.
- (47) Toby, B. H.; Von Dreele, R. B. GSAS-II: the genesis of a modern open-source all purpose crystallography software package. J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2013 , 46 , 544 -549.
- (48) Mitchell, D. F.; Sproule, G. I.; Graham, M. J. Sputter Reduction of Oxides by Ion Bombardment during Auger Depth Profile Analysis. Surf. Interface Anal. 1990 , 15 , 487 -497.
- (49) Jung, R.; Strobl, P.; Maglia, F.; Stinner, C.; Gasteiger, H. A. Temperature Dependence of Oxygen Release from LiNi0.6 Mn0.2Co0.2 O2 (NMC622) Cathode Materials for Li-Ion Batteries. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2018 , 165 , A2869 -A2879.
- (50) Li, J.; Glazier, S. L.; Nelson, K.; Ma, X.; Harlow, J.; Paulsen, J.; Dahn, J. R. Effect of Choices of Positive Electrode Material, Electrolyte, Upper Cut-Off Voltage and Testing Temperature on the Life Time of Lithium-Ion Cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2018 , 165 , A3195 -A3204.
- (51) Long, B. R.; Rinaldo, S. G.; Gallagher, K. G.; Dees, D. W.; Trask, S. E.; Polzin, B. J.; Jansen, A. N.; Abraham, D. P.; Bloom, I.; Baren ̃ o, J.; et al. Enabling High-Energy, High-Voltage Lithium-Ion Cells: Standardization of Coin-Cell Assembly, Electrochemical Testing, and Evaluation of Full Cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2016 , 163 , A2999 -A3009.
- (52) Koyama, Y.; Tanaka, I.; Adachi, H.; Makimura, Y.; Ohzuku, T. Crystal and electronic structures of superstructural Li 1 -x[Co1/3Ni1/3Mn1/3]O2 (0 ≤ x ≤ 1). J. Power Sources 2003 , 119 -121 , 644 -648.
- (53) Li, Y.; Bettge, M.; Polzin, B.; Zhu, Y.; Balasubramanian, M.; Abraham, D. P. Understanding Long-Term Cycling Performance of Li 1.2 Ni0.15Mn0.55Co0.1O2 -Graphite Lithium-Ion Cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013 , 160 , A3006 -A3019.
- (54) Jahn, H. A.; Teller, E. Stability of polyatomic molecules in degenerate electronic states-I  Orbital degeneracy. Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A 1937 , 161 , 220 -235.
- (55) Kang, S.-H.; Abraham, D. P.; Yoon, W.-S.; Nam, K.-W.; Yang, X.-Q. First-cycle irreversibility of layered Li -Ni -Co -Mn oxide cathode in Li-ion batteries. Electrochim. Acta 2008 , 54 , 684 -689.
- (56) Buchberger, I.; Seidlmayer, S.; Pokharel, A.; Piana, M.; Hattendorff, J.; Kudejova, P.; Gilles, R.; Gasteiger, H. A. Aging Analysis of Graphite/LiNi1/3Mn1/3Co1/3O2 Cells Using XRD, PGAA, and AC Impedance. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2015 , 162 , A2737 -A2746.
- (57) Xu, R.; Sun, H.; de Vasconcelos, L. S.; Zhao, K. Mechanical and Structural Degradation of LiNixMnyCozO2 Cathode in Li-Ion Batteries: An Experimental Study. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2017 , 164 , A3333 -A3341.
- (58) Choi, J.; Manthiram, A. Investigation of the Irreversible Capacity Loss in the Layered LiNi1/3Mn1/3Co1/3O2 Cathodes. Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 2005 , 8 , C102 -C105.
- (59) Fornasini, P.; Grisenti, R. On EXAFS Debye-Waller factor and recent advances. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2015 , 22 , 1242 -1257.
- (60) Schnohr, C. S.; Ridgway, M. C. Introduction to X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. In X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy of Semiconductors ; Schnohr, C. S., Ridgway, M. C., Eds.; Springer Berlin Heidelberg: Berlin, Heidelberg, 2015; pp 1 -26.
- (61) Meyer-Klaucke, W.; Gnida, M.; Henkel, G. X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy in Biology. Reference Module in Chemistry, Molecular Sciences and Chemical Engineering ; Elsevier, 2014.
- (62) Ovejas, V. J.; Cuadras, A. Effects of cycling on lithium-ion battery hysteresis and overvoltage. Sci. Rep. 2019 , 9 , 14875.
- (63) Rashid, M.; Pathan, T. S.; McGordon, A.; Kendrick, E.; Widanage, W. D. Investigation of hysteresis and relaxation behaviour in graphite and LiNi0.33Mn0.33Co0.33O2 electrodes. J. Power Sources 2019 , 440 , 227153.
- (64) Dreyer, W.; Jamnik, J.; Guhlke, C.; Huth, R.; Mos ̌ kon, J.; Gabers ̌ c ̌ ek, M. The thermodynamic origin of hysteresis in insertion batteries. Nat. Mater. 2010 , 9 , 448 -453.
- (65) Barai, A.; Widanage, W. D.; Marco, J.; McGordon, A.; Jennings, P. A study of the open circuit voltage characterization technique and hysteresis assessment of lithium-ion cells. J. Power Sources 2015 , 295 , 99 -107.

(66) Collin, R.; Miao, Y.; Yokochi, A.; Enjeti, P.; von Jouanne, A. Advanced Electric Vehicle Fast-Charging Technologies. Energies 2019 , 12 , 1839.

(67) Bjo ̈ rklund, E.; Brandell, D.; Hahlin, M.; Edstro ̈ m, K.; Younesi, R. How the Negative Electrode Influences Interfacial and Electrochemical Properties of LiNi1/3Co1/3Mn1/3O2 Cathodes in Li-Ion Batteries. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2017 , 164 , A3054 -A3059.

(68) Dixit, M.; Kosa, M.; Lavi, O. S.; Markovsky, B.; Aurbach, D.; Major, D. T. Thermodynamic and kinetic studies of LiNi0.5Co0.2Mn0.3O2 as a positive electrode material for Li-ion batteries using first principles. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2016 , 18 , 6799 -6812. (69) Gao, H.; Cai, J.; Xu, G.-L.; Li, L.; Ren, Y.; Meng, X.; Amine, K.; Chen, Z. Surface Modification for Suppressing Interfacial parasitic Reactions of a Nickel-Rich Lithium-Ion Cathode. Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 2723 -2730.

(70) Nyman, A.; Zavalis, T. G.; Elger, R.; Behm, M.; Lindbergh, G. Analysis of the Polarization in a Li-Ion Battery Cell by Numerical Simulations. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010 , 157 , A1236 -AA1246.

(71) Liu, C.; Neale, Z. G.; Cao, G. Understanding electrochemical potentials of cathode materials in rechargeable batteries. Mater. Today 2016 , 19 , 109 -123.